When you read Psalm 116, what do you discern about the writer of the song?
In verse 1, he says, I love Jehovah because
he hears my voice, my plea for help, for he inclines his ear to me, or the footnote says,
he bends down to listen to me.
And I will call on him as long as I love.
Well, the Psalmist faced a life-threatening situation. He didn't know if he would survive.
He called out to Jehovah. And in verse 8, he says, you have rescued me from death, my eye from tears,
my foot from stumbling. So at the point is, the Psalmist's conviction was based in personal
experience. He prayed to Jehovah and he saw Jehovah's hand in his life in an answer.
How about you, and me? Like the Psalmist, do we have anxious moments?
Absolutely. Do we talk to Jehovah in prayer as we should?
What are some anxieties that those of us in full-time service may confront? Well, here are two.
One, concern about family. We may have elderly parents. We may have elderly parents in poor
health. We may have a family member who is struggling spiritually. And all of a sudden,
we're confronted with decisions. What should I do? What is my scriptural responsibility?
What does my heart say? What do my circumstances allow me to do? Anxiety.
Here's another concern over past wrongs. Some of us struggle to overcome past mistakes,
and we tend to focus on them. We love Jehovah very much, but sometimes we look at ourselves more
critically than Jehovah does. If we are experiencing one or both of these anxieties, what can we do?
Well, we can do what the Psalmist did. Pray. For a few minutes this morning, let's consider
the prayers of three faithful servants of God who experienced anxiety. We're going to talk about
Jacob, David, and Jehoshaphat. First, let's consider Jacob. Turn to Genesis chapter 32.
And the context of Jacob's prayer is his reunion with his brother Esau, whom he hadn't seen
in over 20 years. Jacob was concerned. How would Esau receive him? Notice his prayer in verses 11 and
12. Save me. I pray who, from the hand of my brother Esau, for I am afraid of him that he may come and
attack me as well as the mothers and their children. So there was the anxiety. There was the fear.
But notice verse 12. And you have said, I will certainly deal well with you, and I will make your
offspring like the greens of sand of the sea, which are too numerous to count. It's interesting,
isn't it, that in addition to the anxiety, the problem, Jacob also had Jehovah's promises clearly
in mind. And it was his awareness of this bigger picture that helped Jacob handle the matter
in a balanced way. Now, when we are concerned about family members, many questions go through our
mind. And one of them may be, should I leave full-time service? Should I travel? Perhaps thousands
of miles in order to be with my family? We're not suggesting there's one right answer.
Every situation is different. But what we are suggesting is that by seeing the bigger picture,
not being hasty to give up full-time service, is it possible in the outworking of matters that Jacob's
anxiety was bigger in his own mind than the problem was in Esau's mind? Well, it could be. And
isn't it true that sometimes, in our effort to resolve difficulties, we may make a bigger
matter of it in our own mind than it is in the minds of our family members. So the suggestion is,
don't be hasty, look at the big picture, remember Jehovah's promises, and he will help you resolve
your anxiety. What about past mistakes? If you struggle with a tendency to torment yourself over
past mistakes, it might help you to know that faithful servants of God in the past had the same
anxiety. For example, Job, going through all of the difficulties that he did, was moved to admit
the sins of his youth. And David prayed about it. Let's look, Psalm 25, in Psalm 25 verse 7, notice what David
says, Do not remember the sins of my youth and my transgressions. Remember me according to your
loyal love for the sake of your goodness, O Jehovah. Well, Jehovah has a perfect memory.
He can remember anything he chooses. But David here says, please, Jehovah, forget my past mistakes,
and remember me according to your goodness. Well, sometimes we cling to past mistakes,
maybe serious mistakes and maybe not so serious. But if we don't overcome that negative thinking,
it can paralyze us spiritual. So what can help? Remembering that Jehovah takes delight in putting
our transgressions as far away from us as the sunrise is from the sunset. In other words,
when Jehovah looks at us, he's not looking at our past mistakes. He's looking at the good we're
doing now. So rather than becoming consumed with anxiety about the past, once we've done what we
can to resolve a matter, set matters straight with Jehovah, leave it in the past and get on with the
business of serving God. There's one more prayer that we want to look at very quickly. In second
Chronicles, chapter 20, please turn there. And the context of this verse,
Jehoshaphat and the nation of Judah are confronted with an overwhelming force comprised of Moabites,
Ammonites, and those from the mountainous region of Seaheer. What would they do? Who?
Jehoshaphat prayed. Second Chronicles, chapter 20, verse 12.
Oh, our God, will you not execute judgment on them? For we are powerless before this large
crowd that is coming against us. And notice, we do not know what we should do. But our eyes are
toward you. Well, isn't it true? Sometimes we don't know what we should do. Like Jehoshaphat,
we can humbly acknowledge that to Jehovah. What did Jehovah do for Jehoshaphat? He confused the
enemy. They killed one another and Jehoshaphat didn't have to do anything. What might Jehovah do for
us? Well, his Holy Spirit can help us to remember scriptures that will guide us. We have
experienced brothers and sisters around us who can help us. And the faithful and discrete slave
has provided an abundance of written material that is available for research. But as in the case
of Jehoshaphat, Jehovah may do something totally unexpected for us. And when that happens,
when we experience Jehovah's hand in our life, then we speak with conviction as the solmest dead.
I love Jehovah because he listens to my voice, my pleas for help, and I will call on him as long as I
love.